---                                                                                   
layout: post
title:  "2020/10/02 Blog 4"
date:   2020-10-02 14:17:31 -0700
categories: Senior-Design
---   

<style>
body{ background-color: #e6e6ff; }
main { background-color: white; } 
pre, code{
    color: black;
    background-color: #e6e6ff;
    padding: 2px;
    padding-right: 7px;
    white-space: pre-wrap;      
    white-space: -moz-pre-wrap; 
    white-space: -pre-wrap;     
    white-space: -o-pre-wrap;   
    word-wrap: break-word;      
}      
      
</style>

<body>
<main role="main">
<h2><strong>User Management</strong></h2>
<p>User management is one of the most importnat roles that a system administrator fulfills. With my experience from working in the IT department at CSUN, we commonly handle a variety of tasks which pertain to this. Primarily - creating new accounts (portal, canvas, and email) for new students, changing passwords, deleting users, and many other configurations per student. In a file system, there are sets of permissions organized into 3 classes: user, group, and others.</p>

<p>In today's blog, I will be discussing the different ways to manage users.</p>

<h2><strong>List of Commands</strong></h2>
<ul>

<li><p><b>Adduser</b>: This command adds a single user.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Newusers</b>: Creates several new users from a textfile</p></li>
<li><p><b>Deluser</b>: This is used to delete a user</p></li>
<li><p><b>Addgroup</b>: Adds a user to a group or system</p></li>
<li><p><b>Delgroup</b>: removes user from a group or system</p></li>
<li><p><b>Chage</b>: This is used to manage the user's password</p></li>

</ul>

<h2><strong>Important Files</strong></h2>

<p>There are 4 main files I will be discussing:</p>

<p>
<b>/etc/passwd</b>: /etc/passwd is a text file which contains attributes about each user on a system. Each line that exists within /etc/passwd represents a single user, where the first will be listed as root (for administrative). By default, the permissions set for this file is <i>readable</i> so that anyone on the system can read it. Every line contains 7 attributes: <i>name, password, user ID, group ID, gecos, home directory,</i> and <i>shell</i>.
</p>

<p>
<b>/etc/group</b>: /etc/group is a text file which defines the groups to which users belong under. Within Unix/Linux operating systems, multiple users can be categorized into groups. This file corresponds directly with /etc/passwd when a new user is added. If the group name is not defined for a user, then a new group name will be automatically created to be the same as the username. 
</p>

<p>
<b>/etc/shadow</b>: /etc/shadow is a file that actually stores passwords in an encrypted format for a user's account with additional properties such as the salt, checksum, and more. In other words, the purpose of the /etc/shadow file is to store secure user account information. Every line in /etc/shadow has 8 fields: <i>1. Username, 2. Password, 3. Date of last password change, 4. Minimum, 5. Maximum, 6. Warn, 7. Inactive</i> and <i>8. Expiration</i>.
</p>

<p>
<b>/etc/skel</b> This is not a file; however, it is a directory that contains files and directories that are automatically copied into a new user's home directory when a user is created by the <i>adduser</i> or <i>useradd</i> command. This directory allows a system admin to create a default home directory for all new users on a computer, making certain that all users are able to begin with the same settings or environment. An example of this would be the CSUN loaner laptop devices that students may rent out from the bookstore. Each laptop has a user with a pre-defined settings and an environment for students to use. 
</p>

<h2><strong>How do the files look inside?</strong></h2>
<h3><b>/etc/passwd</b></h3>
<pre>
bin:x:2:2:bin:/bin:/usr/sbin/nologin
sys:x:3:3:sys:/dev:/usr/sbin/nologin
sync:x:4:65534:sync:/bin:/bin/sync
games:x:5:60:games:/usr/games:/usr/sbin/nologin
man:x:6:12:man:/var/cache/man:/usr/sbin/nologin
lp:x:7:7:lp:/var/spool/lpd:/usr/sbin/nologin
mail:x:8:8:mail:/var/mail:/usr/sbin/nologin
news:x:9:9:news:/var/spool/news:/usr/sbin/nologin
</pre>

<h3><b>/etc/group</b></h3>
<pre>
news:x:9:
uucp:x:10:
man:x:12:
proxy:x:13:
kmem:x:15:
dialout:x:20:helloitskc
fax:x:21:
voice:x:22:
cdrom:x:24:helloitskc
floppy:x:25:helloitskc
tape:x:26:
sudo:x:27:helloitskc
audio:x:29:helloitskc
</pre>

<h3><b>/etc/shadow</b></h3>
<pre>
root:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
daemon:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
bin:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
sys:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
sync:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
games:*:12345:0:99999:7:::
</pre>

<h3><b>/etc/skel/</b></h3>
<pre>
helloitskc@DESKTOP-IITTPJG:/etc/skel$ ls -a
.  ..  .bash_logout  .bashrc  .profile
</pre>

<h2><strong>Examples for Commands</strong></h2>

<h3><b>addgroup</b></h3> 
<pre>
$addgroup --gid 1111 group1
$addgroup --gid 2222 group2
</pre>
<p><code>addgroup [options] groupname</code><br>In this command, I am adding a group by using the <code>--gid</code> argument so that I may set a group ID number to group1. This defines the group in /etc/group. Therefore, group1 will have an ID that is 1111, and group2 will have the ID as 2222</p>
<pre>
Adding group 'group1' (GID 1111) ...
Done.
Adding group 'group2' (GID 2222) ...
Done.
</pre>
<p>This is how they appear in /etc/group</p>
<pre>
group1:x:1111:
group2:x:2222:
</pre>

<h3><b>adduser</b></h3> 
<pre>
$adduser --disabled-password --gecos kevin --ingroup group1 kevin
</pre>
<p>
<code>adduser [options] login</code><br>
Here, I am adding a single user, kevin. The <code>--disabled-password</code> option will not set a password, but despite that - login will still be possible. The <code>--gecos</code> option will not ask for finger information. The <code>--ingroup</code> allows me to define the group for the user where I inputted group1 because that's where I want kevin to be. Once I use this command, this user will be added inside the textfile, /etc/passwd on a new line with a whole new set of fields/attributes.<br><code>kevin:x:1001:1111:kevin,,,:/home/kevin:/bin/bash</code><br> As we can see, the user kevin was created and the values, <b>x</b> refers to the disabled password, 1001 is the user ID, 1111 is group ID (group1), and it has created a directory in home, "kevin".
</p>

<h3><b>deluser</b></h3>
<pre>
$deluser kevin
Removing user 'kevin' ...
Warning: group 'group1' has no more members.
</pre>

<p>
<code>deluser [options] user</code><br>
deluser is used to delete a single user. In this case, I used deluser with the user "kevin", which will remove "kevin" from /etc/passwd and /etc/group. The "warning" message appeared because kevin was the only user inside the group. Therefore, group1 is now empty.
</p>

<h3><b>delgroup</b></h3> 
<pre>
$delgroup group1
Removing group 'group1' ...
Done.
</pre>
<pre>
delgroup [options] groupname
</pre>
<p>delgroup will remove the group from the /etc/group file. Therefore, group1 will no longer show up when I read the file nor is it usable anymore.</p>

<h3><b>newusers</b></h3>
<pre>
$echo kevinchung1:!csun1230:1000:2222:kevinchung1:/home/kevinchung1:/bin/bash > users.txt
$echo chungkevin2:!csun1231:1001:2222:chungkevin2:/home/chungkevin2:/bin/bash >> users.txt
$echo hungevinck3:!csun1232:1002:2222:hungevinck3:/home/hungevinck3:/bin/bash >> users.txt
$mv users.txt /etc/skel
</pre>
<p>The difference between addusers and newusers is that newusers adds a batch of new users into the system from a text file. In this case, I am pre-defining the users settings by setting their username, password, userID, groupID (group2), home environment, and pushing it into the user.txt file. This is where <code>/etc/skel</code> is being used. I moved the users.txt file into /etc/skel because it will copy files and directories onto the new user's homedirectory. Since I am adding a new batch of users, the command would like like this: 
<br><pre>
newusers [options] filename
$newusers /etc/skel/users.txt
$cat /etc/passwd 
...
kevinchung1:!csun1230:1000:2222:kevinchung1:/home/kevinchung1:/bin/bash
chungkevin2:!csun1231:1001:2222:chungkevin2:/home/chungkevin2:/bin/bash
hungevinck3:!csun1232:1002:2222:hungevinck3:/home/hungevinck3:/bin/bash 
...
</pre>
<br>This will take all the users within this file and begin creating an environment for each of these users.</p>

<h3><b>chage</b></h3>
<pre>for x in $(cat /etc/passwd | tail -3 | cut -d ":" -f1); do chage -d 2020-10-03 -M $((${#x}&#42;10)) -W 3 -I 2 $x; done
</pre>
<pre>chage [options] login</pre> 
<p>This is a for-loop which takes in the last 3 user logins in the /etc/passwd text file, and changes when the user must change their password. I used the options <code>-d -M -W -I</code>. <b>-d</b> sets the number of days for when the password was last changed in the format of YYYY-MM-DD. <b>-M</b> sets the maximum number of days for a password to be valid. Here, I set the password expiration date to the number of letters in their name, multiplied by 10. <b>-W</b> sets the number of days warning before a password change is required. Lastly, <b>-I</b> sets the number of days of inactivity after a password has expired before the account is locked. A user who has their account locked must contact the system administrator before being able to use the system again. </p>

<h2><strong>Conclusion</strong></h2>
There's a plethora of tools for system administrators to use when it comes to managing all user accounts. System administrators essentially have full control over management systems, but it is important to understand what type of environment is being built for the organization since they provide the creation and management of users, groups, system permissions, and security settings.


</main>
</body>
