yout: post                         
title: "2021/03/12 Blog 16"                                                
date: 2021-03-12 14:55:00 -0700
categories: Senior-Design
---

<style>
body{ background-color: #e6e6ff; }
main { background-color: white; }
a {color: blue; text-decoration:underline; }
a:hover{ background-color: #e6e6ff; }
pre, code{
    color: black;
    background-color: #e6e6ff;
    padding: 2px;
    padding-right: 7px;
    white-space: pre-wrap;
    white-space: -moz-pre-wrap;
    white-space: -pre-wrap;
    white-space: -o-pre-wrap;
    word-wrap: break-word;
}
</style>

<body>
<main>
<h2><strong>GitHub Branches</strong></h2>
<p>When working on GitHub, there is a feature called Branching which is very reliable when it comes to working with version control systems. When you branch into other version control systems, they can be expensive in time and diskspace. Therefore, these branches are used for handling the various development processes of a project. One way to think of these branches is a snapshot of your changes. For example, when trying to add new features or fix bugs, regardless of size, you can create a new branch to capture and isolate those changes. This helps developers prevent unstable code becoming merged into the source code, allowing people to easily clean their mistakes before merging into the main branch.</p>

<h2><strong>How do Branches Work?</strong></h2>
<p>A branch is essentially an independent line of development. They serve as an abstraction for the edit, stage, and commit process. One way to interpret them is by treating them as a new working directory. New commits would be recorded in that current branch - causing a fork in the history of the project, not affecting the main branch's project history.</p>

<p>Developers may build, list, rename, and delete branches with the <code>git branch</code> command. It doesn't allow you to switch between branches or reassemble a forked history afterwards. As a result, the git branch command is well integrated with the git checkout and git merge commands.</p>

</main>
</body>

